In this video, you will learn to;
describe a penetration
testing process,
Mile-2 CPTE training,
and what is meant
by ethical hacking.
Part of this session is
the penetration testing process.
The penetration testing phases
that in the audit
we just understand,
for example, that we don't
have the web system.
We don't have any assessment
yet to understand
or to review if the system is
prone to cross-site scripting.
Well, on that pentesting site,
we will go and we will
test the cross-site
scripting into the system.
We will act like an attacker,
like in a hacker,
and try to explore the system,
try to perform
the cross-site scripting
and understand what happens.
Understand if the system
is prone to cross-site scripting.
Well, let's simulate,
let's attack the system,
let's generate
the cross-site scripting
attack into the system,
and let's see what happened.
Let's see if the system,
let me send a message to a user,
and let me, through the user,
to go to an external
website and try
to hack the user's computer,
try to hack the system.
So basically,
the penetration testing or
the ethical hacking
process this is
just methodology used by Mile-2,
is a vendor that has
a lot of cybersecurity
certification,
but this is just a basic
and the standard process.
So you will need to footprinting
your target on the same target
that we have the web
application program.
We will need to
understand first of all,
what kind of system
we are dealing with,
if this is a web
system or dealing
with the WordPress platform,
we're dealing with
a customized platform,
HTML5 platform.
The scanning planning process
will let us know
or in the Pentester view,
we'll give the Pentester
the knowledge to understand
if there is any port open.
What is the operative system
of the web server application?
What is the language?
What is the database that
the web application
is reporting to?
On the enumeration, we will
understand any kind
of techniques,
any kind of processes that
we are going to generate,
that we're going to use
for the access system.
Obviously, we have the
exploitation or penetration part,
and these means that we're
going to perform the attacks.
We're going to generate
get the attacks.
If we understand that we are
dealing with
a WordPress platform,
and the WordPress platform
is in a server in
the internal network
and the same WordPress platform
prompts to a SQL
injection attack,
and we could get the information
for the database.
Well, let's generate the attack,
let's create the attack
and see what happen.
If the attack was successful,
we will have to perform
a set of steps.
For example, we could
elevate the privilege,
we could manipulated the data.
We need to cover our tracks.
For example, we don't want for
that CSEC to detect
our steps in the system.
So probably, we will need
to cover our tracks.
We will have to leave a backdoor.
For example, we will want to
come back later to the system,
and we don't want to perform
any of the previous steps.
We just want to go
and double-click on
the LinkIn in our Desktop and
get access to the system,
then we will need to
leave a backdoor.
Those processes, those steps,
we'll understand or will give us
an understanding that the
system is prone to attacks,
and not just prone to attack but
the system will have
or will deal with
attacks in a way
that will give the
attacker the full control
of the system,
or will block the attack and
will drop all the connections
from the attacker computer.
So that process,
the pentest process
is normally known
as an offensive security scan,
is something that you will
need to act like an attacker,
you will need to act as
a hacker and perform
attacks into systems.
Obviously, you will need
to have permission from
your client in order to proceed
with these kind of test.
But on the audit,
the important part here is
understand that if you
will perform an audit,
this is not necessarily
a pentest or
a pentest is not
necessarily an audit.
So there is a lot of differences,
there is a lot of things that
you will keep in mind in order to
perform each of both or
each of the processes,
each of the techniques that
we show you in the session.